Hey everybody, my name is Jeremy McDonald. I'm the campus pastor at Conexus Aurelia and I am so excited for today. This is baptism Sunday. I have been looking to
And looking forward to this day all year long because we get a chance to celebrate the stories that God is writing in so many people's lives. And so, hey, I'm sure you can already feel
Already feel the emotion in the room, the energy in the room. If you're here in Barry, if you're watching from Aurelia, we've got the tank there ready to go in Midland as well.
And listen, if you're watching online, we are so glad that you're here. You're going to get a chance to hear from so many people and their stories of what God is doing in their life. But I want to make sure that you know, if you're
No, if you're watching him...
Midland, Aurelia here in Barrie. Today could be your day. Even if you didn't come prepared to be baptized, man, we would love to celebrate that with you today. In fact,
In fact, we've thought through this as our host mentioned, we actually have everything that you need in order to be baptized. In fact, if you just head over to the auditorium, you can do that at any
At any point during our service, it won't hurt my feelings, I promise. During the music, during other people's baptisms, and our team would love to host you.
to you so that you can celebrate your baptism here today. Now, I wanted to, as we get started here, just explain a little bit about baptism, because truthfully, if you're here,
If you're here and maybe you haven't grown up in church or maybe as you come in this place, you've seen baptism, but you just have a lot of questions about it. It's kind of confusing if you think.
You think about it. Why would somebody sit in a small tub of water and let somebody else push them into it? Right.
Like it's a little bit odd for sure. And the truth is, is that baptism is a sign, a public sign, a public symbol of a personal disease.
This public symbol is a way for anyone who is a Jesus follower to describe what Jesus has done before.
2014 for them. And it actually makes me think of my wedding. My wedding was back on July the 13th, 2013. My wife Chantel and I got married. And that's
That ceremony was this incredible symbol of the love and the commitment that we had for each other. Yeah.
but that wedding day, as great as it was, wasn't the thing that actually sparked our love.
that had happened before and it was this opportunity for us to showcase it and show it for all of our friends and our family and baptism is kind of similar to that
to that. And so if we go all the way back to where this practice started, and you kind of ask yourself the question, why are people baptized? The truth is there's two
22 main reasons. The first is that Jesus modeled it for us. 1.
Jesus modeled it for us. At the very beginning of his ministry, Jesus made sure to mark that beginning with this step of baptism for himself. He actually was
actually went into the waters and someone baptized him. And we have four biographies of Jesus, and in three of them, we catch this story of him modeling the practice of .
The second thing is that Jesus actually mandated it. He says that anyone who chooses to follow him needs to take this step forward.
of baptism.
And so for all of us who choose to follow Jesus, this is something we do as a response to what Jesus has asked us to do. And just to clarify and make sure that you understand exactly what
I want to kind of walk you through how most people experience their spiritual journey. The first step in most people's spiritual journey is that they believe in
Now, obviously, in this room, we have people who are maybe you're atheistic, maybe you're agnostic, and that's totally fine. We're actually glad that you're here, and perhaps you're here.
You're here celebrating somebody's story, or perhaps you're still kind of searching or looking. And so you are welcomed here. Of course, we actually have created this place with you in mind. But when somebody starts their spiritual journey,
journey, they begin with this belief that God actually exists, that there's a higher power out there. And that's a good first step, but really, truly and honestly, it's to
It's just that first step.
you see i can remember back before chantal and i started dating i believed in her existence.
but that didn't mean that we were tracking together in life. it didn't mean that we were moving in the same direction yet. it didn't mean that we had made any commitment to each other. i just knew.
knew that she was a person and I knew who she was. And so belief in God is a great place to start but not a great place to stop. And so afterwards, people often get a chance to
Get a chance to then go and try some godly things. Thank you.
and those kinds of things could be as simple as coming and experiencing a church service it could be spending some time praying it could be opening up the scriptures and reading a little bit of the bible.
And trying godly things is an incredible next step because it shows that you want to learn a little bit more, dig in, you might have some questions, but as you try, you haven't gotten
haven't completely bought in.
you haven't completely committed and that's okay that's a part of the process
but in people's spiritual journey there comes a time when you actually surrender to jesus
And when you surrender and give your life over to Jesus, that comes with a full commitment. That means that whatever Jesus says to do, you just say,
Say yes.
and when you surrender, it's when you acknowledge the fact that we just can't do it on our own. we need a savior, we need someone to come to forgive us of the things that we've done wrong.
Done wrong and give us freedom and hope for our future.
Now, the truth is, is at that step, that's when you can be baptized. That's the only precursor to baptism is a surrender to Jesus. And after that, you'll continue
You'll continue to grow in faith for sure. Your faith will take more steps. You'll get a little bit more confident in it. You'll learn more about who God is. Your life will transform. But you don't have to clean
Clean up your life in order to be baptized. Right?
and so at this point of surrendering to jesus that's when you can celebrate your baptism and if you're here today and you've made that commitment my gosh we would love to celebrate your baptism here.
Here
now if you haven't yet made this commitment this is the kind of thing can be a little bit scary because when we talk about surrendering control of your life over to someone lots of people think that that means
That means you lose the freedom that comes from being your own person, right?
and that's a question that has been asked all throughout the centuries and in fact we can trace all the way back to the earliest christians asking that exact same question
and there was an early convert to christianity his name was paul uh sometimes called the apostle paul his name used to be saul and he had this miraculous encounter with jesus and
And he became a follower of Jesus and wrote this letter. And we call it Romans. And so if you open your Bible in Romans, it's this incredible letter where he wrote to the Christians in Romans.
166 in Rome, all about this freedom. And this is what Paul writes. He says, when you were slaves to sin, you were free from the obligation to do good.
Right.
so before you choose to follow jesus and surrender your life over, you do have this freedom from the obligation to do right. you can decide to do your own thing.
But what he's referencing is this thing that we all realize at some point in our life is that that creates a slavery relationship.
To our own sinful nature.
and you can find that out really easily by just asking yourself what's the result of that and he actually explains it you are ashamed of the things that you used to do things that end
that end in eternal doom. And if we're honest with each other, also a temporal doom. Like our own sinful desires can be the things that actually on route
Unravel our closest relationships. That if we start telling stories about some of our own personal greatest regrets, we're
they mostly all come back to an on wise decision that each of us have made.
and so he recognized that he knows that and as he writes to these christians he offers this other idea that as the freedom that comes from being able to make our own decisions is
Freedom is an actually freedom.
And instead he says, "But now, when you choose to follow Jesus, but now you are free from the power of sin and have become instead slaves to God."
God, slaves of God.
and so for any of us here today that are making this this decision to be baptized you're gonna hear it in their stories you're gonna get a chance to understand why these stories are so.
Boys are so emotional because they're people who experience for so long life's biggest regrets as they live for themselves and then turning a corner, giving their life
Allowing Jesus to transform our life so that we can experience all that God has given us. And that's what we're going to do.
All that God has for us and become the kinds of people that he has created us to be.
And so today, if you haven't yet made that decision, you can actually decide to surrender to Jesus today.
You know, for some people, it happens in a moment. For some people, it takes a little bit of time. It's a bit more of a process. But I will make sure that we pray as we close things off in order that you
That you can pray along with me and make that commitment.
But before I get to there, there's a number of us who have already decided to follow Jesus, and you haven't yet taken that step of baptism. And for some reason, perhaps, you've been holding back. And maybe
And maybe it's just a bit of confusion around what baptism is. And so I just want to make sure that you understand what baptism isn't, because this kind of gets mixed in.
in with maybe sometimes what people anticipate or expect from baptism. So first off, baptism is not salvation.
It's not the thing that saves us. Jesus is the person who saves us, and we are saved by him when we surrender our life to him. Amen.
this is simply that symbol that celebrates the decision that we've already made to serve and to follow him
The second thing is that baptism is not a suggestion.
You know, if you're here and you have followed Jesus with your life and you haven't yet taken the step of baptism, Jesus is the one. This is not coming from me. This is not coming from anybody on our staff.
And our staff team, Jesus is the one who says, you need to take the step of baptism. It's not a suggestion. It is a commandment. And so to obey and follow Jesus,
Follow Jesus. This is your next step and it can happen today. Thirdly, baptism is not at odds with your infant baptism.
In fact, it's complimentary. You see, if you were baptized as a baby, it simply meant that your family were so excited that you were with them, and they so wanted you to
And so to be baptized now as an adult is a different thing. They're actually two separate things.
things and it's actually celebrates and affirms the decision that your family made all those years ago. Now I get that sometimes family will be a little bit confused about that but you
But you can know today that they are two different things, and even if you were baptized as a baby, you should take this step and be baptized as an adult to affirm your own
Own personal faith for yourself.
Then lastly baptism is not something that you need to do twice keeping in mind that infant baptism is different than adult baptism but if you've been baptized as an
Is this an adult already or is it a teenager or is it a student? You don't need to be baptized again, right?
and i'm i'm sure that if it was a while ago that god has continued to write a new story in your life and that's incredible we celebrate that we are excited about that and we actually want to hear what god is doing.
God is doing in your life now. But because you've already been baptized, you don't need to take that step a second time. We can find other ways to celebrate what God is doing in
In your life.
well in a moment our our band is actually they're gonna come and we're gonna sing one song together and let's let that be the cue that if you're here you're sitting in one of our seats and you need to be baptized.
Be baptized today that you can head out during that song and our team will host you and be able to set you up to be baptized today. But I want to take a moment because I know that there's some people here
And you haven't yet taken that step to surrender to Jesus. And I want to make sure that you have an opportunity right now. So I'm going to pray for us. And if you would just bow your heads.
Heads and close your eyes across all of our rooms
you can simply follow along in your own heart and mind and pray this simple prayer knowing that you can surrender to Jesus right now today and know that he is the one that's going to
One that's going to lead and guide your life for the rest of your life. Just pray along with me. Amen.
Jesus, i come to you with a humble heart.
recognizing that I need you.
God, I need your, I need your forgiveness.
Jesus, I need your freedom and I need you to lead my life.
Jesus, would you come?
Into my life right now
And I would love to celebrate surrendering to you today.
I pray these things in your name.
Amen.
Can we give it up for all the people who made that prayer today and that we can celebrate the fact that they are following Jesus? We are so glad for that. And you can now be baptized.
You can now celebrate that decision publicly with all of us.
so as our team is gonna lead us in this song you can remain seated and our guest services team they're actually gonna come they'll give us an opportunity to give here this morning and a huge thanks whether you're ready.
Whether you're about to give in the service, you'll give maybe at the pin pad afterwards, or if you give online, we're so grateful for the partnership and the way that you're helping create these environments and you can
you kind of remain seated as they come.